Glosssary - code splitting (#29153)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/code_splitting/index.md

**Code splitting** is the splitting of code into various bundles or components which can then be loaded on demand or in parallel.

> As an application becomes more complex or undergoes maintenance, the CSS and JavaScript files, or bundles, tend to increase in size, particularly when incorporating numerous and sizable third-party libraries. To mitigate the need to download excessively large files, it can be benficial to split scripts into smaller files. By doing so, essential features required during the page load can be promptly downloaded, while additional scripts can be [lazy loaded](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Lazy_load) after the page or application has become interactive. This approach enhances performance, even if the overall code size remains the same, and may even result in a slight increase in byte size. The key benefit lies in reducing the amount of code necessary during the initial load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an application becomes more complex or undergoes maintenance, the CSS and JavaScript files, or bundles, tend to increase in size, particularly when incorporating numerous and sizable third-party libraries. To mitigate the need to download excessively large files, it can be beneficial to split scripts into smaller files. By doing so, essential features required during the page load can be promptly downloaded, while additional scripts can be [lazy loaded](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Lazy_load) after the page or application has become interactive. This approach enhances performance, even if the overall code size remains the same, and may even result in a slight increase in byte size. The key benefit lies in reducing the amount of code necessary during the initial load.
```

> As an application becomes more complex or undergoes maintenance, the CSS and JavaScript files, or bundles, tend to increase in size, particularly when incorporating numerous and sizable third-party libraries. To mitigate the need to download excessively large files, it can be beneficial to split scripts into smaller files. By doing so, essential features required during the page load can be promptly downloaded, while additional scripts can be [lazy loaded](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Lazy_load) after the page or application has become interactive. This approach enhances performance, even if the overall code size remains the same, and may even result in a slight increase in byte size. The key benefit lies in reducing the amount of code necessary during the initial load.

Reviewer: Thank you. This is better than what was before. But do you think we might simplify this a bit? @wbamberg Thoughts?

```suggestion
Code splitting allows an application to ensure that page rendering and user interaction are not slowed while waiting for large files that contain unnecessary code to download.
For example, an application can bundle and download just the essential code needed to render the page on page load, while other code is [lazy loaded](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Lazy_load) as needed.
This makes the web application much more responsive, even though it may slightly increase the overall code size.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, definitely. I think "unnecessary" in your paragraph 1 needs some qualification, otherwise I'm left wondering, why are we including unnecessary resources?

Maybe something like:

> Code splitting is the practice of splitting the code a web application depends on — including its own code and any third-party dependencies — into separate bundles which can be loaded independently of each other, so the application can load only the code it actually needs at a given point in time, and load other bundles on demand. This is used to improve application performance, especially on initial load.

Reviewer: Thanks very much - obviously "unnecessary at that point in time", but it's a moot point since I much prefer your text. I incorporated a variant of that.

Thanks also to @kenniford for kicking this off.

I
